If a region is hot enough to sublimate → molecule will undergo hops until it reaches a region cold enough to condense

Each molecule follows a ballistic trajectory → think throwing something up and the arc it takes as it rises and falls

Variables:
t - time for average hop
v - travel speed
g - surface gravity
D - distance travelled per hop
K - fractional surface area
y - accommodation coefficient
A - probability of being lost on single hop

Equations:
t = sqrt(2)v/g
D = ½vt 


functions:
loss_check
get_direction
get_velocity
calculate_coordinates
update_temp
trap_check
calculate_air_time


1. What issues is your partner currently facing? If they are not facing
any issues, please describe what work they have completed and
the work they have left to do.

My partner has come pretty far in their implementations. They chose to start with the equations in 
the 97 paper and have most of them implemented. A few of the things they are still struggling with 
include calculating flight time and figuring out how to do variable gravity. The primary issue they 
are facing is that when they are doing their calculations the gravity is turning negative when it's
a very large height since they are decreasing the gravitational force, the higher the elevation of 
the particle is. Another aspect which they are still working through is the visualization aspect of
this project and deciding if it's worth putting time into trying to display their time steps on a 
sphere. Finally, they are planning on doing more testing with the latitude (ie. if all the 
molecules were to start at the same latitude would that lead to more consistent results [all or 
none trapped] versus when using an even distribution for latitude.)

2. Reflect on your behavior as a reviewer during this session. Did
you feel like you were an engaged listener? Did you ask any clari-
fying questions?

I think I did okie as an engaged listener. There were parts where I definitely struggled to follow
along with what they were talking about since their code was much farther along than mine but I do 
think I was able to clarify what I needed to and we had a good discussion about how they might 
change their flight time calculations by either setting a cap or simplifying their model. I do 
think I could have asked more questions about what their plans were for showing that they met their 
benchmark but I did ask about their code plans for implementing the latitude related things they 
would need for recreating the figure they've chosen as their benchmark.

3. Reflect on your behavior as a person sharing an issue. Did you feel
like you explained your code clearly? Do you feel like this process
helped clarify what you need to do next?

I don't think I explained my code very clearly and I think there's a number of reasons for that. I 
knew going into this project that I wouldn't have a ton of time to work on it prior to the midpoint 
since I was home with family and no matter how much I want to get work done at home it never 
happens. That kind of led to me feeling a bit behind on this project and that definitely showed in 
my code explanation. I definitely skimmed through it at the beginning because I felt like there 
wasn't much I implemented but my reviewers asked me to go into more detail about certain aspects 
and having them be explicit about that was really helpful for me in giving a better explanation. I 
do think this process was super helpful for me in seeing how other people chose to structure their 
implementations as well as talking through some of the physics stuff I tried to implement and where 
I had some logical fallacies in my math.